>> Kyle Simpson: So you notice that
we have the same outcome with curry,
as we had with a partial application.
We just got there in
a decidedly different way.
Same outcome, which is that I have
a general function ajax, an intermediately
more specific function called getCustomer,
and an even more specific, getCurrentUser.
But with partial application,
if you were to look a couple slides back,
to get each level of the specialization,
I had to call the utility again.
With currying, I call it once at
the beginning to set up my function, and
then it automatically specializes
itself as I pass info.
I think that's one of the reasons
why currying is more attractive,
is it ends up being that you write
fewer calls to these utilities.
You call it once to set up a function and
you just automatically can specialize it.
As a matter of fact,
virtually all functional programming
libraries that you will encounter.
All of the methods on those
functional libraries
are automatically already curried.
Because it turns out, functional
programmers want everything to be curried.
And if you remember what I said at the
very beginning when we were talking about
shapes, one of the reasons why functional
programmers like curried functions is
because they like unitary functions.
Single input, another output, and
you can see that a curried
function is exactly that.
It is a chain series of unitary functions.
Single input single output, single input
single output, single input single output.
>> Kyle Simpson: So in another words, to
summarize this partial application versus
currying thing, what we could say is that
they are accomplishing the same thing,
but doing it in a different way.
Both of them
are specialization techniques,
partial application is going to preset
some of the arguments at the beginning.
And then receive all the rest
of them on the next call.
And if you wanna do multiple
steps of that specialization,
you got to keep calling it, the utility.
Currying on the other hand,
doesn't preset any of the arguments.
And it receives each
argument one at a time.
>> Kyle Simpson: If you ever get
asked on a future job interview,
what's the difference?
What's partial application incurring?
The answer is, both of them specialize,
they do it differently.
Partial application takes some input now,
all the rest of the input later.
Currying takes no input now,
each input one at a time.
>> Kyle Simpson: By the way,
I wanna back up real quick one slide,
skipped over one thing I
didn't wanna skip over.
There is this notion of what I would call,
strict versus loose currying.
And I'm calling this out because
you're gonna encounter this and
you may ask yourself.
This idea that I've been showing you
recurring has been like we see online
seven, which is that each time I call
the function I provide only one input.
Cuz that's how we did it when we manually
curried, that's how it works in Haskell,
you provide one input at a time.
I would call that the canonical or
strict interpretation of currying.
But if you had a function, say something
that received five inputs, and
you knew three of them right now, and you
wanted to wait to define the other two.
You can see there would be a little bit
annoying to have to do three separate
function calls with three
separate parentheses.
It might be much more convenient,
like line 10, to just be able to
provide two inputs all in one call.
You see where I'm coming from?
So, that technique is what I
would refer to as loose currying.
Meaning, at each level of the function
call, you can pass in one or
more arguments.
And the function you
get back is waiting for
whatever the next arguments should be,
you with me?
The reason why it's important to
point out loose currying is because,
as far as I'm aware, every JavaScript
functional programming library that I have
seen does loose currying,
not strict currying.
But if you're really trying to adhere to
the true notion of what currying was,
as it was conceived in Haskell,
you'd be doing strict currying.
I think the reason why those libraries
chose the loose carrying form is for
convenience only,
not because it's the more,
economically correct way of doing it.
So, just be aware when you see something
like line 10 where multiple inputs
are being passed,
that still might be currying.
It might just be loose currying instead.
>> Student: Why does partial application
still exist in functional programming?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's a good question.
So the question is,
if currying is generally preferred, and
you will find that it usually is,
why even have a partial application?
The best answer I can give you, I mean,
other than the fact that it's sort of
historical and when something is
in the economical body of work.
It's never gonna get removed, other
than that I would say, there are some
cases where it'd be more convenient to
do partial application than currying.
For example, let's say you have a function
that starts out expecting five inputs.
And you want to produce another
function that expects three inputs,
you wanna preset only two of them.
If you were to curry it,
two things would be true.
First of all, you'd have to call it
twice and that's a little annoying.
But secondly, the function you'd get
back would not be a function that was
expecting three inputs, it would be
occurred function of three more chains.
And that might not be the shape of
function that you wanna pass around.
So it might be the case that
the partial application produces a more
preferable shape,
that's not gonna be common.
But that's why it might still exist is
that, sometimes that tool might produce
a function shape that is more
preferable than a currying function.